Description:
Project Name: Health Related Social Needs
Clinic: Corazon Behavioral Health Services
Process: Operational: Implement a new HRSN screening protocol with an evidence‐based questionnaire.
TIP 2.0 Process
Milestone: New Milestone
Project Description / Purpose
Implementation shall include:
1. Screening members served by the practice annually using an evidence‐based, standardized HRSN screening tool that
includes (at least) the following domains: housing instability, utility assistance, food insecurity, transportation needs, and
interpersonal safety.
2. Documenting screening results in the member’s Electronic Health Record (EHR) and claims (i.e. G codes and Z codes)
and establishing processes to maintain the confidentiality of patient data.
3. Identifying, selecting, and establishing partnerships with CBOs, especially those focused on shelter, food, utility
assistance, and transport, to deliver resources and/or interventions. Practices should prioritize relationships with CBOs
that address social needs that are prevalent within the practice population.
4. Develop referral and communication processes with each CBO to refer members for community resources and/or
interventions using the statewide closed‐loop referral system CommunityCares.
5. Making referrals to and tracking the status of member referrals to CBOs to ensure receipt of services and/or
interventions.
6. Ensuring practice team members are effectively sharing and receiving referral data from CBOs, through
CommunityCares or other means.

Overview:
Problem
Summary:
Despite the recognized importance of HRSN, there is a significant gap in the systematic screening and
addressing of these needs within healthcare settings. Patients with unmet social needs often
experience poorer health outcomes, higher healthcare utilization, and increased costs. The lack of
standardized screening processes and tools, coupled with insufficient integration of HRSN data into
clinical workflows, impedes the effective identification and management of patients' social needs.
Desired
Outcome(s):
1. Improved identification of patients' health‐related social needs.
2. Enhanced ability of healthcare providers to address and manage social needs.
3. Better health outcomes for patients with previously unmet social needs.
4. Reduced healthcare utilization and costs associated with unmanaged social needs.
5. Greater integration of social care into healthcare delivery.
Benefits:
By addressing these challenges and objectives, the project aims to create a more holistic approach to
patient care, where social determinants of health are routinely considered and managed alongside
medical needs.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1 The Administrative Team will review and implement a standardized HRSN screening tool by
Task 2 The Administrative Team will develop a seamless workflow for HRSN screening that minimizes
disruption to clinical practices
Task 3 The Clinical Director will train providers on the importance of HRSN, how to use the screening tool,
and how to address identified needs
Task 4 The Administrative Team will collaborate with CommunityCares to implement the data management
system to securely collect, store, and analyze HRSN data
Task 5 The Administrative Team will establish partnerships with community resources and services to
address identified social needs.
Task 6 The Administrative Team will ensure patient privacy and confidentiality while fostering trust in the
screening process.

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
Objective: To implement the HRSN screening tool. Due Date: September 30th, 2024
Objective: To develop and implement an internal workflow for the HRSN with minimal disruption to clinical practices. Due Date:
September 30th, 2024
Objective: To train all staff on the importance of the HRSN Screening tool, its use, and the process of referring as needed. Due
Date: September 30th, 2024
Objective: To implement the Unite US/ Health Current/ Community Cares platform. Due Date: September 30th, 2024
Objective: To partner with Community Based Organizations by enlisting them to join the Community Cares platform and
streamline the referral process for HRSNs.
Objective: To provide all clients with Client Rights form to ensure best practices of patient privacy and confidentiality.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
By September 30 th
, 2024
Objective: Complete LabCorp Attestations for HealthCurrent participation. Due Date: September 30th, 2023
Objective: Complete the HealthCurrent Portal Project for HIE 3.0 Portal training and onboarding for administrative staff. Due
Date: September 30th, 2023
Objective: A minimum of 1 staff member to attend the SDOH CommunityCares Stage 1 Introduction Meeting. Due Date: April
22 nd
, 2024
Objective: A minimum of 1 staff member to attend the SDOH CommunityCares Stage 2 Unite Us Engagement Session. Due Date:
April 23 rd
, 2024
Objective: Submit the completed SDOH Contact & Community Partners Spreadsheet and workflow. Due Date: April 30 th , 2024
Objective: All staff to attend the SDOH CommunityCares Program‐ Go Live. Onboarding, Launch Plan, New User Training Due
Date: May 31 st
, 2024.
Objective: The Web Manager will attach the HTML code for the Assistance Request linked to the Corazon website. Due Date:
September 30 th , 2024

Team:
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Kristina Belinte SDOH Senior Advisor CommunityCares Program Contexture
Beatriz Satizabal Implementation Manager Family Medicine Unite US
Anne Rolle Implementation Project Manager Contexture Contexture
Kelly Flones Tech Support CommunityCares Unite Us
Stephen Brown Account Manager Contexture/ HealthCurrent Contexture
Susan Fassett Implementation Project Manager Contexture/ HealthCurrent Contexture
Merli De Leon Client Support Specialist Contexture/ HealthCurrent Contexture